Let's start from the beginning.
What is DevOps and why do we need it?
In this lecture, we're going to take a look at evolution of modern applications and how does DevOps
help there, as well as general practices and benefits of DevOps.
Moreover, we are also going to take a look at some challenges of DevOps and how do you solve them?
Let's get started.
So in the olden days, most applications were running in Monolith, so you'll have different APIs coming
to the API, gateway, a load balancer, and everything gets routed to the single large code base.
The entry function will check the path and execute the logic accordingly.
What was the challenge there?
Since Monolith has this single huge code base, the underlying virtual machine or Amazon EC2 for us
needs to be sizable in this case.
Hm 512 x large.
Even if traffic increases for one of the API or one component for the monolith, there is no way to
scale that part.
As a result, this huge virtual machine needs to go out of scale, and since the traffic only went up
for one of the APIs, the utilization of both of these issues will be subpar and you'll end up paying
more.
Since everything is integrated into the single code base, it will be very difficult for you to work
on a new feature and deliver it without impacting and testing all the other existing features.
That's how the applications evolve to microservices.
In microservices architecture, each API will have its own separate back end and depending on the traffic
and nature of this APIs, you can choose different virtual machines on the back end when the traffic
increases for one component, the backend for that microservice scales up without impacting the back
end of other microservices.
In addition, since everything is running in a separate microservice, it gets very easier to release
new feature.
You could even code different microservices in different programming languages.
We call this feature polyglot.
All right, so microservice is the way to go and the world is moving towards microservice.
But what that means is microservices require frequent implementation.
If you take a look at some of the large enterprises such as Amazon, Coca-Cola, Netflix, they deploy
code every day, in some cases every 12 seconds.
Can traditional deployment keep up with this?
Let's take a look.
With traditional deployment, you have separate teams for developer operations who is in charge of moving
and deploying your code.
So in this flow, the developer checks in the code.
Then what's a little bit for someone to come and build the code, then wait a little bit more to deploy
that code to a test environment where a little bit more for someone to test that code.
You guessed it right.
Wait even more for the operations team to deploy that code to production.
This takes hours or days and a lot of grief for developers and operations.
And in case of a production problem, the whole cycle is repeated and it takes longer to fix the issues.
And in between these hours and days, I'm sure the developer and operation have conversations like this
where a developer asks, When are you going to deploy my code?
And the operation says, When you stop breaking my servers, the developer wants speed.
But if you think from the operation perspective, the developer is deploying a gigantic monolith, probably
after a month of not deploying anything, and that could very well break the servers.
So at the end of the day, both the developer and the operation folks want to do cool stuff.
That's how DevOps was born.
The term DevOps is created by Patrick de Boer in 2009.
DevOps is a combination of cultural philosophies, practices and tools that increases an organization's
ability to deliver applications and services at high velocity, evolving and improving products at a
faster pace than organizations using traditional software development and infrastructure management
processes.
Even though I mentioned cultural philosophies, practices and tools either for good or bad in the interview,
job market is based on tools, so you will be asked more on the.
Google's part under DevOps model development and operation teams are no longer siloed.
Sometimes these two teams are merged into a single team where the engineers work across the entire application
lifecycle, from development and test to deployment to operation.
So going back to our traditional deployment model, how would this look like in DevOps world?
Well, in DevOps world, both the developer and operations will be on the same team.
That's the cultural part.
And the technology and the tools part will be all these checkin code build code deployed to test test
code deployed to prod will be automated.
There will be minimum number of manual interventions as a result.
Whole flow could be done in seconds and in case of errors it is easy to roll back because even the remediation
is automated.
You could even automate the monitoring part.
You can monitor certain critical metrics and in case a metrics crosses a threshold, you can trigger
a rollback to the previous version of the code.
What are some of the general DevOps practices?
The first principle is you need to automate everything, building your code to testing your code, deploying
your code and as well as monitoring and remediation of your application, you should be deploying frequently
rather than one mega deployment in months.
You need to codify every step your infrastructure, application, testing, error handling, etc. And
remember that Rome was not built in a day.
This will take time and that's okay.
It is not an all or nothing approach.
There are organizations where most of the things are done in DevOps, but there are still manual steps
and that's okay.
All right.
Now that you understand the evolution of modern architecture and how DevOps come into play, let's take
a look at some of the DevOps benefits.